# Escape Plan
## Description
<p>Escape Plan is a web application for creating and sharing travel itineraries with the world. Whether you're wanting to get inspiration for your next big trip or share insights gained as you wait for your connecting flight home, Escape Plan offers a seamless platform for travelers to plan, share, and be inspired as they explore the world.</p>

### Developers
##### Escape Plan would not exist without the collective effort of the dedicated team behind it.
- Front End Development
    - Together, Andrew Thomas and Kai Han brought their talents to the digital South Beach of Escape Plan as they curated a smooth and fluid user experience to make planning your trip almost as fun as the trip itself. Their work serves to make the application sleek and intuitive.
- Back End Development
    - Like a master cartographer, Vanessa Pursley charted the New World of data and connectivity, mapping out the intricate pathways that bridge the gap between your dreams of a lavish escape and the punching of your ticket.
    - Behind every successful mission is a man sitting in a dark room, basking in the glow of his computer screen as he weaves together the digital fabric that supports and protects its users. Jordan Cox orchestrated the database and raised the defenses of user authentication to give the people what they want, and the bad guys nothing.
### How it works
Users can create an account with Escape Plan and immediately either jump into building and sharing their own travel itineraries, or viewing those that others have created to seek inspiration. Simply click "Make My Escapes" to start crafting your dream trip, "View My Escape" to review, edit, or delete your itineraries, or "Browse Escapes" to see what others have put together. Was your trip a raving success? Maybe share it with the world!
### Link: https://escapeplan.onrender.com/
- Please note that deployment is still a work-in-progress, but go ahead and bookmark us!
### Tech / Frameworks Used
- MongoDB
    - Mongoose
- Express
- React
    - Vite
    - Bootstrap
- Node
    - Axios
    - JSON Web Token
    - bcryptjs

### Database Schema
<p>Escape Plan uses MongoDB's flexible data model to manage and organize data across multiple key entities: "Itineraries", "Days", "Activities", and "Users."</p>

###### Itineraries Collection
- Description: Contains the base level information about your trip, the first leg of the journey for any great adventure.
- Structure:
  - "destination": The most important part of planning any vacation: figuring out where to go.
  - "startDate": The departure date.
  - "endDate": The return date.
  - "days": An array referencing the "Days" collection, automatically generating a number of days based on the start and end dates selected in order to facilitate a more sequential approach to building out your trip.
  - "vibe": users can select from 1 of 4 vibes (romantic, family-friendly, adventure, and relaxing) that best describe the kind of vacation that they're planning, allowing other users to browse published itineraries based on their desired vibe.
  - "_id": a unique identifier automatically generated by MongoDB.
###### Days Collection
- Description: Splits your trip up into individual days with space to add planned activities, allowing for more granular control in the planning phase.
- Structure:
  - "date": The calendar date based on the start and end date entered in the "Itineraries" collection.
  - "activities": Much like the "days" in our "Itineraries" collection, this is an array referencing the "Activities" collection, listing out any planned activities in a particular day.
  - "_id": a unique identifier automatically generated by MongoDB.
###### Activities Collection
- Description: Outlines specific activities planned for each day, ensuring that your trip is as "clipboard of fun" or "go with the flow" as you wish.
- Structure:
  - "description": A brief title for each activity.
  - "time": When to be there.
  - "location": Where to show up.
  - "cost": An essential for the budget-conscious, or just knowing how much cash you may need to have on-hand.
  - "note": A space to include any helpful tips, reminders, or FYI's.
  - "_id": a unique identifier automatically generated by MongoDB.
###### Users Collection
- Description: Stores essential information for user authentication and identification within the application. It includes user emails and securely stored passwords.
- Structure:
  - "email": The user's email address, their unique identifier for login purposes.
  - "password": a hashed representation of the user's password, enhanced with salt rounds for additional security.
  - "_id": a unique identifier automatically generated by MongoDB.

### Future Development
While Escape Plan may have gotten off of the tarmac, more is in the works as we strive to add more features and make improvements to the user interface. Here are just a few things that we aim to bring to the experience.
- More interactivity with published itineraries. 
  - A high priority for the team is to bring the ability to vote posted itineraries up or down to improve visibility for great experiences, as well as to add comments to highlight what may have been a "can't miss" or an "avoid at all costs" part of the trip.
- Push to calendar.
  - Once your itinerary is complete, we aim to add the ability to push your itinerary to your personal calendar on your mobile device.
- Flight, hotel, and car rental implementation.
  - We want to do everything we can to make planning your trip a smooth and enjoyable experience, so we have plans to integrate the ability to search flights, hotels, and rental cars all from within the app.
- Featured experiences.
  - With frequently-traveled destinations, we hope to bring can't-miss deals and experiences based on partnerships with area businesses, recommendations from Local Guides on Google.
